0)What is an array?

a)An array is used to store multiple values of the same data type in one variable and can be accessed by index. The size of the array is fixed once it is created.

Why { } specifically?

Java uses { } to represent the group of array elements.

For example:

String[] names = {"Pradeep", "Rahul", "Raj"};

1. Single-dimensional array

A single-dimensional array stores values in a single line. 
	ex :- int[] a = {10, 20, 30};

Single-dimensional = one level of []
int[] a;

2. Multidimensional array

A multidimensional array has multiple dimensions. which looks like a table with rows and columns.
        Column
          0   1   2
       ┌─────────────
Row 0  │ 10  20  30
Row 1  │ 40  50  60
Row 2  │ 70  80  90

Multidimensional = two or more levels of []

int[][] a; 

1)What is collections?

a)It is a utility class that provides ready-made methods to perform operations on collections such as

	1)sorting
	2)reversing
	3)Finding max/min

2)What is collection in Java?

a)Collection is an interface which is used to store group of objects and we can perform operations such as adding removing. Here size is not fixed can shrink and grow based on the data size. In collection add method returntype is Boolean.

3)Difference between list & set?

a)LIST :- 
	A List is an ordered collection of elements, Duplicates are allowed, Iteration is possible.

b)SET :-
	A Set is an unordered collection of unique elements, Duplicates are not allowed, Iteration is possible.

4)What is ArrayList?

a)Arrayalist means it stores elements in continuous way. We can add/remove elements. Accessing of an element using index is very fast here.but insertion and removing of element in the middle can be slower because elements may need to shift.

5)What is LinkedList?

a)LinkedList stores elements in nodes. Each node is connected to the previous and next node. To access an element using an index, it may need to travel through the each node until it reaches the required position, so index-based access is slower than ArrayList. Here also we can add/remove elements. Finding the position → can be slow
Changing the links → very fast. There is no shifting of all the elements like in an ArrayList.

6)What is HashSet?

a)HashSet is a class that implements the Set interface. Store unique elements without guaranteeing their insertion order

7)What is LinkesSet?

a)LinkedHashSet is also a class that implements Set interface.Store unique elements while maintaining insertion order.

8)What is TreeSet?

a)TreeSet is a class that implements the Set interface. Store unique elements and keep them in sorted order.
	

9)what happens if we add dupliactes to HashSet?

a)It will give return type Boolean. If value add returns True otherwise False.

10)What is Map?

a)Map is an interface in Java used to store data in the form of key-value pairs.

11)What is HashMap?

a)It stores the data in the form of key-value pairs. keys are unique and values should be duplicate. does not guarantee insertion order.

12)What is LinkedHashMap?

a)It stores the data in the form of key-value pairs. keys are unique and values should be duplicate. Maintains insertion order.

13)What is TreeMap?

a)It stores the data in the form of key-value pairs. keys are unique and values should be duplicate. Maintains keys in sorted order.


14)what is return type of add() method in collection?

a)Boolean T or F


1. getLastRowNum()

✔ Starts from index 0 (zero-based).
✔ Counts both empty and non-empty rows (as long as they were used before).
✔ Returns the index of the last used row (not the total count).

❌ Does not count spaces separately → It only looks at the last used row index.


---

2. getLastCellNum()

✔ Starts from index 1 (one-based).
✔ Counts both empty and non-empty cells (if they were used in a row).
✔ Returns the index of the last used column + 1 (not the total count).

❌ It does not count spaces separately, but if a cell contains only spaces, it is still considered a used cell.


---

3. getPhysicalNumberOfRows()

✔ Starts from 1 (one-based count).
✔ Counts only rows that have at least one non-empty cell.
✔ Returns the total number of rows that contain data.


---

4. getPhysicalNumberOfCells()

✔ Starts from 1 (one-based count).
✔ Counts only non-empty cells in a row (ignores empty cells).
✔ Returns the total number of non-empty cells in a row.


15)What is Java? Explain its features?

a)Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language is used to create software. It is very secure and able to run on any computer. Once we write a Java Program, we can run it anywhere - like windows, mac, Linux without changing the code.

FEATURES :-
  a)Simple :- Removed many of the confusing concepts like explicit pointers, Garbage collector will do the deallocation activities we don't need to worry abput memory management.

  b)Object-Oriented :- We can create "Objects" and reuse them. It helps in organizing and structuring our code better.

  c)Robust :- Java is strong and able to handle unexpected errors, allowing the application to continue running smoothely and securely. Java doesn't crash easily. 

		ex :- we developed online banking application that transfers money
	
		If the user enters an invalid amount (like 0 or negative value), the program crashes and the server goes down.

		If its robust(Java handles this well) shows a proper message, "Invalid amount entered" and the app continue working.

  d)Secure :- Java keeps our computer safe from viruses.

  e)PlatformIndependent :- If we write the code once and run it anywhere. Java converts our code into bytecode, which runs on any system with java installed.

		ex :- System.out.println("Hello")

		1)Java compiler converts this into bytecode (.class file)
		2)JVM reads the bytecode and converts into binary language

  f)Multithreaded :- Java can do many tasks at the same time


16)What are the Main Principles of Oops?

[Think of a class as a blueprint or template - like the blueprint for a car. It defines what properties (like color, model, engine type) and behaviours (like drive, brake) a car should have. An object is an actual car built from that blueprint. It has specific values - like a red Honda Civic with a petrol engine.]

Object :- In Java, an object is an instance of a class that represents a real-world entity.


state : represents data or attributes of an object (ex :- marker colour, height, width, length);

In Java (state = variables)

Behaviour : represents the operations/tasks of an object (ex :- to write something on board).

In Java (behaviour = methods)

Identity : a unique ID used by JVM to identify object 

Marker : (state /variables : shape , length , color etc ..)
		 (behaviour / methods :  writing on biard , marking something on parcel etc..)
		 
Dog : (state /variables : gender , breed , color etc ..)
		 (behaviour / methods :  eating , barking sleep etc..)
		 
AccountNumber : (state /variables : length of digits)
		 (behaviour / methods :  funds transfer, account statements etc..)


Class :- A class is a blueprint or template it contains methods and variables for single class we can create multiple objects


a)Oops :- Oops is a object oriented programming system where everything is treated as objects. These objects contain variables and methods.

	1)Inheritance :- One class can use variables, methods of another class like a child inheriting traits from parent class.
		
		SingleLevel :- Child class inherits from parent class.
		Multi-Level :- Suppose we have 3 classes A,B,C. C inherits from B, And B inherits from A.
		Hierarchial :- Multiple child classes inherits from the single parent class.
		Multiple    :- Java doesn't support the multiple-inheritance we can achieve it through interface.

	2)Encapsulation :- Hiding data in terms of private variables and private methods within a class and restricting direct access to them. They can only be accessed and modified 	through public 				   methods(Getters & Setters).
	
	3)Abstraction :- Abstraction means hiding internal implementation and showing only functionality to the user. In Java, abstraction can be achieved using abstract classes and interfaces. An 				 abstract class can contain both abstract and concrete methods. Abstract methods act like a blueprint, and the child class provides its own implementation for those methods.

	4)Polymorphism :- Polymorphism means many forms mainly it has Method Overloading, Method Overriding.
		a)Method Overloading : - Same methods behave differently based on the parameters.
		b)Method Overriding : - It is a process of providing replacement for the parent class method functionality with the child class method functionality.

17)What is interface?

a)Interface mainly contains abstract methods. The child class implements the interface and provides its own logic for the methods declared in the interface.

18)What is memory management in Java?

a)Java uses automatic garbage collection to remove unused objects. Memory is managed by JVM in heap and stack memory.

19)What is constructor? How are they different from methods?

a)A Constructor is a special block of code will execute when an object is created to the class. It has the same name as the class and no return type and void.

20)What is the main method in Java?

a)The main method is the starting point of any Java Program. It is where the execution begins.

	public : So it can be called from anywhere by the JVM.

	static : So it can run without creating an object of the class.

	void : It doesn't return anything.

	main : Name recognized by java as the entry point.

	string[] args : Used to accept command-line inputs if needed. 

21)Difference between the JDK, JRE, JVM?

a)The JDK(Java Development Kit) contains JRE, and JRE(Java Runtime Evironment) contains JVM(Java Virtual Machine). JDK -> JRE -> JVM.

  JVM : -
	It converts .class files into binary language and it is responsible for running java bytecode.

  JRE :- 
	JRE provides the environment and required libraries to run Java applications.
	JRE = JVM + Libraries required to run java applications.

  JDK :-
	JDK provides everything required to develop java applications, including development tools, the runtime environment, and JVM.


22)Explain platform independent in Java?

a)Java code is converted into .class files and the JVM knows how to run those .class files on any system.


23)What is Defect Life Cycle? (Simple Explanation)

a)The Defect Life Cycle is the step-by-step journey of a bug (or issue) from the time it is found by a tester until it is fixed and closed by the team.


1. New
👉 When a tester finds a bug, it is logged as New in the defect tracking tool (like Jira, Bugzilla).


2. Assigned
👉 The bug is assigned to a developer by the test lead/project manager.


3. Open
👉 The developer has started analyzing and working on the bug.


4. In Progress / Fixed
👉 The developer has fixed the bug and marked it as Fixed (or Resolved in some tools).


5. Retest
👉 The tester now retests the issue to verify whether the bug has really been fixed.


6. Reopen (if needed)
👉 If the bug still exists, the tester reopens it and sends it back to the developer.


7. Verified
👉 If the bug is fixed and not reproducible, the tester marks it as Verified.


8. Closed
👉 The test lead or tester closes the bug after confirmation.



Rejected – It's not actually a bug.

Deferred – It's a valid bug but will be fixed later.

Duplicate – The same bug was already reported before.



24)Can you override static methods?

a)No, we can't override static methods.

	1)Static methods belong to the class, not to the object.
	2)If a child class defines the same static method as the parent class static method, it doesn't override it - it only hides it.


25)Can the main method be overloaded?

a)Yes, we can overload the main method in Java like other method, but the JVM always calls the main method with String[] args as the program's entry point. Other methods can be called manually inside it.


26)Difference between the exeception and error?

a)EXCEPTION :- Exception is an error that occurs during the execution of a program and can be handled in code using try/catch block, throw, throws, finally.
 
  ERROR :- Errors, represent serious issues related to the JVM which can't be handled in code.


27)Difference between checked and unchecked exceptions?

a)CHECKED EXCEPTIONS :- Checked exceptions happen due to external factors like FileNotFound, InternalServerError or DatabaseError. Java checks them at compiler time and force us to handle 			
			them using try/catch or throws. Once we handle them properly, if the issue really occurs, it will caught in the catch block and the error will be shown at run time.


			ex : - package practice;                       Try These example for better understanding about checked exception
                               import java.io.FileReader;
                               public class Prac {

	                       public static void main(String[] args) {		
		           *   FileReader fr = new FileReader("file.txt");
				}
			       }

			

UNCHECKED EXCEPTIONS :- Unchecked exceptions are caused due to bad logic or coding mistakes like null or division by zero. Java doesn't check them at compile time. so it doesn't force us to handle. If they happen, they cause an error at run time.
 
 ex :- a)NullPointerException
       b)ArithmeticException
       c)ArrayIndexOutOfBoundException


28)What is static why we use?

a)1)Static is a keyword in Java used for memory management. It belongs to the class, not the object.
  2)When we declare variable or method as a static, it is shared among all objects of that class - there is only one copy in memory.


29)What is the difference between the throw and throws in Java?

a)	throw :- It is used to manually throw an exception from our code. By using this we can throw only one exception.

	throws :- When we know a method might cause an exception later, we inform the compiler by writing throws in the method declaration.

					public void readData() throws IOException{

					}


30)Difference between the final, finally, finalize in Java?

a) FINAL :- Final is a keyword in Java used to make something constant, which means we cannot change it after it's set.

		ex:- Once a variable assigned as a final, we cannot change it again.

				final int age = 25;
					  age = 30;    wrong
               
		ex:- Once a method assigned as a final, child classes can't override it.

				class Parent {

					final void show (){
						System.out.println("Parent method");
					}
				}
				
				class Child extends Parent{
					void show(){
						System.out.println("Child method");
					}
				}

		     Once a class assigned as final, can't be inherited.


  FINALLY :- It is a block of code always executes after try - catch block whether an exception occurs or not.


31) what is 

public class InvalidBrowserException extends RuntimeException {

    public InvalidBrowserException() {
        super("Invalid browser choosen ..make sure use chrome . firfox /edge ..");
    }
}


a)Throwable
  ↳ Exception
     ↳ RuntimeException


public RuntimeException(String message) {
    super(message); // This goes further up to Throwable
}


public Throwable(String message) {
    this.detailMessage = message;
}


32)Overload and Override static methods?

Overload: Yes

Override: No. Static methods belong to class not object


33)Execute Test Cases in Framework

Through TestNG/Cucumber runner class or Jenkins job


34) Use of Test Runner in Cucumber

It runs all feature files/scenarios

Connects glue code with feature files



35)Joins in SQL

Inner Join: common records

Left Join: all from left + match from right

Right Join: all from right + match from left

Full Join: all records from both

Self Join: joining table with itself



36)CRON in Jenkins

Used to schedule jobs

cron
Copy
Edit
H 0 * * *   → Run every day at 12:00 AM


37)What is instance variable?

a)A variable  which  is  declared  inside  a  class  & outside  of  method

38)What is local variable?

a)A variable  which  is  declared  inside  a  method .

39)What is super keyword?

a)Super keyword is used to access the 
	1)Parent class variable.
	2)Parent class method.
	3)Parent class constructor

40)what is this keyword?

a) Is used to distinguish between the instance variable and parameter.


41)what is File file = new File("data.txt")?

a)File represents a file or directory path.

It  mainly  gives  you  information  about  the  file and  lets  you  perform  file-system  operations.
System.out.println(file.exists());
System.out.println(file.getName());
System.out.println(file.length());

It doesn't read the contents of the file.

42)what is FileInputStream fis = new FileInputStream("data.txt")?

a)FileInputStream  is  used to read  data from the file as a stream of bytes.

43)Difference  between the severity & priority?

a)Priority :- How quickly the defect should be fixed.
  Severity :- How serious the impact of the bug on the application.




